---
permalink: welcome
layout: post
title:  Welcome
author: Dan
foregroundcolor: fff
backgroundcolor: ff0000
date: 2014-11-10 13:42:40
category: news
published: true
sitemap:
  lastmod: 2014-11-23
  priority: 0.7
  changefreq: 'monthly'
---

We are pleased to announce the release of popupCAD, a design tool which facilitates the development of laminate devices, popup mechanisms, and flat-foldable structures.

This project is early in development, and can hopefully be used as a platform for collaboration across labs. If you are someone with a desire to make laminate devices in a slightly new way, or if you're interested in applying your own internal manufacturing rules into a new plugin, I'd be happy to set you on the right path and get them developing new modules specific to your own needs.

The source code is available, which should currently run on windows, mac, or linux under python 2. Python 3 support might work, although I don't test on it often enough to verify it works. There is also an installer for 64-bit windows.  There is some documentation on getting the source code to run on a variety of platforms. And, if you are willing to help, I could use all the documentation help I can get.

The software is currently licensed for research and personal use at academic institutions until we work out a longer-term plan for release. As your feedback is important to our decision-making process, we would love to hear whether and/or how you feel you can use this in your own case.


Thanks,

Dan Aukes

danaukes (at) seas.harvard.edu
